---
layout: post
title: Network device for communicating between devices using ethernet over speakers/microphone
date: '2013-12-18T21:26:45-08:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://mgerow.tumblr.com/post/70464426365/network-device-for-communicating-between-devices-using
---
It seems I’m behind the times, just a few hours was when I first heard about badBIOS. Apparently among the many things it does is it allows infected devices to communicate with each other using their speakers and microphone by sending sound between each other above the human hearing range.While badBIOS sounds pretty nasty, the idea of having a protocol to allow devices to communicate with each other using audio actually sounds pretty interesting and I started digging into whether such software exists and, if it doesn’t, how I might go about building it.Cursory research doesn’t seem to indicate any kind of standard library for doing this, so I dove into how it might be made to happen. I initially thought it might be nice to be able to just have the interface look like any other net dev in Linux, so I stumbled upon TUN/TAP, which allows one to create virtual-network kernel devices. Since interacting with the speakers will likely occur in user space, this seems to be a decent interface. I am a little concerned about whether or not ethernet would work well enough using the medium of sound as I’m sure there would be plenty of losses.The TUN/TAP solution is awesome for the interface as it allows anything that can communicate using TCP/IP to be able to use the sound interface. There’s still the issue of how the medium will work physically. I’m guessing it will involve generating sine waves, doing FFTs on microphones to detect specific frequencies, and creating some glue synchronization code to allow us to stay synchronized over the full 1500 bytes of an ethernet packet.
Whatever the case, it definitely seems like it would be a cool project, and I’d even dare to say that it would have the potential to be useful in cases where bluetooth is not available or is too much of a pain to set up.
