---
layout: post
title: Frisbee
date: '2013-11-23T14:59:18-08:00'
tags:
- freebsd
- frisbee
- multicast
- linux
- programming
tumblr_url: http://mgerow.tumblr.com/post/67892071566/frisbee
---
For some recent work I’ve been looking into a multicast protocol called Frisbee. It was developed by the University of Utah, and you can read a paper they published for it at USENIX 2003 here <https://www.usenix.org/legacy/publications/library/proceedings/usenix03/tech/full_papers/hibler/hibler_html/index.html>.

The protocol is quite interesting in that it doesn’t require any synchronization between the server and clients and makes it possible for other clients to still benefit transmissions even if they happen to hop in on the Frisbee session late. Frankly, I’m a bit surprised that the only context Frisbee seems to see any real use is within Utah’s emulab project <http://www.emulab.net/> for distributing images to many machines very quickly.

With that said, I’m interested in the prospect of working with Frisbee in such a way to make it better usable for generic files or for generic applications. Frisbee was developed mainly around moving disk images around, so the Frisbee client is designed so that it can decompress and write disk blocks in the middle of a session. This is great, but it severely limits its use outside that context. The current code has the ability to skip the decompression phase and just write the data straight to the disk, but this also takes away one of the major selling points of Frisbee: doing useful work even while waiting for data to come in across the network. Making this possible for just any kind of file would require essentially turning the client into a library that can be loaded to allow another process to handle chunks (Frisbee’s name for an amount of data that another process like a decompresser can work with) that are coming in while the download continues to happen.In addition, the software is mainly designed to work with FreeBSD, although it works fine with Linux too. It would be nice to see how feasible a port to OSX might be and how I might go about packaging it for Debian (I might finally learn how to properly create deb packages!).

I feel like I’m starting to ramble now, but it’s something I’m interested in doing over my winter break. That or a windjammers clone (and call it Charles Barkley Shut Up and Windjammers 2?), but that’s for another post.
